Adding a Tips and Tricks section to Edge Book and adding the first page for EIB (#502)
suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io: asciidoc/tricks/eib.adoc

= *Edge Image Builder*

.Common 

> - If you are in a non-Linux OS, then you are running podman via a podman machine. This machine is low on resources on it's default settings and can cause Edge Image Builder to hung for resource intense operations, such as downloading RPMs.

Author: will do, thanks!

>   You will need to adjust the resources of the podman machine, either by using Podman Desktop (settings cogwheel -> podman machine edit icon) or directly  via the `podman-machine-set` https://docs.podman.io/en/stable/markdown/podman-machine-set.1.html[command]

Author: yeah it's here on v5.3.1:

![Screenshot 2024-11-28 at 11 12 52](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5403309b-be9c-463b-93b9-ea0d59f67ca1)

> - To avoid any complications, the image architecture being built must match the one on the system running the Edge Image Builder container, for example if you are using an Apple Silicon MacBook, then you should be building only `aarch64` images:

Author: ack, rewording and cleaning up

----
image:
  arch: aarch64
  imageType: iso
  baseImage: slemicro.iso
  outputImageName: single-node-k3s.iso
----

.Kubernetes
- You can't create an image for a multi node kubernetes cluster without setting up a networking section in your definition file, more information https://github.com/suse-edge/edge-image-builder/blob/main/docs/building-images.md#kubernetes[here]

> - You can't create an image for a multi node kubernetes cluster without setting up an `kubernetes.network.apiVIP` parameter (even better add an `kubernetes.network.apiHost` parameter to the setup as well) in the network section of your definition file, more information https://github.com/suse-edge/edge-image-builder/blob/main/docs/building-images.md#kubernetes[here]

Author: I like this approach, thanks for suggesting it, I will reword the negative approach into positive.

----
kubernetes:
  version: v1.31.1+k3s1
  network:
    apiVIP: 192.168.64.11

>     apiHost: 192.168.64.11

Author: alright, on it

----

> - When creating an image for a multi node kubernetes cluster you need to have a way to declare which machine gets which hostname and if it's a server or agent. While the server/agent configuration is managed in the definition file, for the general networking and setting up proper hostnames for the machines you should add the network configuration files in a networking directory. The easiest approach is to use the https://github.com/suse-edge/nm-configurator[nm-configurator] approach 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Edge Image Builder relies on the hostnames of the different nodes to determine their Kubernetes type (`server` or `agent`). While this configuration is managed in the definition file, for the general networking setup of the machines we can utilize either DHCP or the <<components-nmc>> component. 
```

Author: thank you

----

> Example:

Reviewer: I think this example should be unified with the previous one in order to reduce distraction.

Author: ok I will add one example in the end to include all of the above

Definition file excerpt:

---
kubernetes:
  version: v1.30.4+k3s1
  network:
    apiVIP: 192.168.64.11
  nodes:
    - hostname: node1.suse.com
      type: server
      initializer: true
    - hostname: node2.suse.com
      type: agent
---

- Network files location:
├── definition.yaml
└── network
    ├── node1.suse.com.yaml
    └── node2.suse.com.yaml

> node1.suse.com.yaml contents:

Reviewer: Isn't it confusing to the user if we just copy-paste an example without any additional information? I feel like linking to the networking component should be more than enough to convey that the user has to do some more reading to come up with this and we already have a good example of tying it into EIB there.

Author: ack, thanks
